# ⚙ Subscribe / Unsubscribe Scenarios

Subscribe/Unsubscribe Scenarios refer to the process of miners joining or leaving different tiers in the MXC network by subscribing or unsubscribing to recurring bond requirements.

In the MXC network, there are four tiers or levels for miners: Bronze, Silver, Gold, and OG. Each tier has different requirements for a miner to join and remain in the tier. The Bronze tier is the basic level, where most miners start, and it receives the lowest average MXC assignment compared to the other tiers. The Silver tier is the entry-level tier for miners, and to enter the Silver tier, a miner must have a minimum of 75% health and bond a minimum of 3,000 MXC for 12960 blocks. The Gold tier is the second-highest tier, and to enter the Gold tier, a miner must have a minimum of 95% health and bond a minimum of 5,000 MXC for 12960 blocks. Finally, the OG tier is the highest tier, the OG tier available to public for miners with a sufficient track record in both connectivity and certification.

The Subscribe/Unsubscribe Scenarios come into play when a miner wants to move from one tier to another or leave the network altogether. To move from Bronze to Silver or Gold, the miner must subscribe by bonding the required amount of MXC for the required block duration. The bond is recurring, and if the miner does not renew it at the end of the bond period, they will move to the Bronze tier. The bond is not released even if the miner falls to Bronze because of health. The MXC will be released every block for 17280 blocks in equal chunks.

If a miner wants to leave the network or move from one tier to another, they can unsubscribe by unbonding their MXC. However, there are penalties for leaving the network before the end of the bond period. For example, if a miner wants to leave the Silver tier before the 12960 blocks bond period is over, they will have to pay a penalty fee.

If the user has auto-renewal; at the end of bond expiry, it will check if there is enough balance in the MXC wallet and will then automatically deduct the respective amount of MXC in order to stay in the dedicated tier. If the user had no auto-renewal; at the end of bond expiry, and the user doesn't manually continue the bond, the user will move to Bronze tier after 144 blocks.\
